Document Mendix inside Teamcenter (public Beta, 11.12) (#11384)
mendix/docs: content/en/docs/refguide/runtime/mendix-client/mendix-inside-teamcenter.md

---
title: "Mendix inside Teamcenter"
url: /refguide/mendix-client/mendix-inside-teamcenter/
description: "Describes how to embed a Mendix web app as a native component inside Siemens Teamcenter Active Workspace using the embedded client."
weight: 40
beta: true
---

## Introduction

> Mendix inside Teamcenter lets you embed a Mendix web app as a native component inside Siemens Teamcenter Active Workspace (AWC). The Mendix app runs directly in the AWC page as a micro-frontend using the [Embedded Client](/refguide/mendix-client/embedding-the-client/) feature.

Reviewer: AWC is not the correct acronym. We use it internally but its not correct. AW is the correct one but its not used externally. It should be Active Workspace.

Reviewer 2: Changed.

This integration requires the [Teamcenter Connector](/appstore/modules/siemens-plm/teamcenter-connector/) to connect the Mendix app to Teamcenter data and to handle authentication.

{{% alert color="info" %}}
Mendix inside Teamcenter is in public Beta. See the [prerequisites](#prerequisites) for required versions.
{{% /alert %}}

## Prerequisites {#prerequisites}

The following versions are required:

| | Mendix | Teamcenter | Teamcenter Connector |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |

> | **Beta** | 11.12 | 2512 | 2512.1.0 or above |

Reviewer: Don't you need TcC 2606 for the login enhancements?  - https://mendix.slack.com/archives/C0B6TMJ3SUC/p1781199462908459

Reviewer 3: Yes indeed, the user should use TcC 2606 with the latest changes (which is compatible with 2512 if I understood correctly)

Reviewer 2: So the conclusion is 
```suggestion
| **Beta** | 11.12 | 2512 | 2606.0.0 or above |
```

I note that this version is not yet available in Marketplace, does this mean this PR should wait until it is released?

To add an Embedded navigation profile:

1. In Studio Pro, go to **App** > **Navigation**.
2. Click **Add navigation profile**.
3. Select **Embedded** and click **OK**.
4. Configure the **Default home page** for the embedded app.

For more information about navigation profiles, see [Setting Up the Navigation Structure](/refguide/setting-up-the-navigation-structure/).

### Configuring CORS

The Mendix app must allow cross-origin requests from Active Workspace, because the browser loads the Mendix client bundle from the Mendix runtime origin while the page is served from the Teamcenter origin.

Configure the following [custom runtime settings](/refguide/custom-settings/). Replace `https://your-teamcenter.example.com` with the actual origin of your Active Workspace deployment, including scheme and port if applicable.

#### Runtime Settings

| Name | Value |
| --- | --- |
| `com.mendix.core.SameSiteCookies` | `None` |

#### Custom HTTP Response Headers

| Header | Value |
| --- | --- |
| `Access-Control-Allow-Credentials` | `true` |
| `Access-Control-Allow-Headers` | `Content-Type, x-csrf-token` |
| `Access-Control-Allow-Methods` | `POST, GET, OPTIONS` |

> | `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` | `https://your-teamcenter.example.com` |

Reviewer 2: Are these headers configured for Mendix Cloud deployments, or do they only work for Mendix Portable Runtime deployments?

Author: explained below

{{% alert color="info" %}}
Both the Mendix runtime and the Active Workspace server must be served over HTTPS. When `SameSiteCookies` is set to `None`, the `Secure` attribute is automatically added to cookies, which requires HTTPS on both origins.
{{% /alert %}}

> 

Reviewer 3: CORS should also be enabled for the TCSSO Published Rest Service, add the Teamcenter origin to the allow origin, as described at [CORS Settings for Published REST Services](/refguide/cors-settings/)

Reviewer 2: This sounds like it needs a third section heading. **CORS for Team Center SSO** or something.
Is this a configuration which is needed in this app or is it applied somewhere else? I haven't seen a TCSSO published REST Service as a prerequisite for this how-to.

Can you propose something to cover this?

Restart the Mendix app after changing these settings. For background on how CORS works in the Mendix runtime, see [Configuring CORS](/refguide/configure-cors/).

## Installing the Mendix Component in Active Workspace

The Mendix-inside-Teamcenter AWC component (`MendixEmbedded`) is a custom Active Workspace web component that loads the Mendix embedded client bundle and mounts the Mendix app inside the AWC page.

### Adding the Component to Active Workspace

1. Obtain the `MendixEmbedded` component from [GitHub](TBD).
2. Install the component into your Active Workspace stage repository under `src/repo`.
3. Configure the component with the URL of your Mendix runtime.
4. Optionally, set up context passing. For more information, see [Passing Context from Teamcenter](#passing-context).

> 5. Rebuild Active Workspace.

Reviewer: Can we provide the command to do this? Is it awbuild?

Reviewer 3: Yes indeed, it is `awbuild.cmd`. I would assume the user to know this already though, not sure if we need to add it to the docs

> To verify the component was picked up correctly, check that its view model entry exists in the `pathMap.json` registry file in the build output.

Reviewer: Where does pathmap.json reside? Would the users know this?

Reviewer 3: It is located at `src/repo/out/pathMap.json`, not sure if this is common knowledge. Not sure if this is needed

### Registering the Component on a Page

> To display the Mendix app on an Active Workspace page, add a card definition for it to the relevant `layoutsViewModel.json` file in your AWC stage repository. Set `declarativeKeyContext` to the URL of your Mendix runtime:

Reviewer: Same question for layoutsViewModel.json

Reviewer 3: This is located in the src/repo, but depends on which PL Home screen you want to add the card to. Would be nice if there is Teamcenter documentation we can link to, but I cannot find that.

Detailed AWC customization and build steps are outside the scope of this documentation. Refer to the Siemens Active Workspace documentation for instructions.

## Configuring the Content Security Policy in Teamcenter

Active Workspace enforces a Content Security Policy that must be updated to allow Mendix content to load.

In your Teamcenter gateway configuration (`gateway/config.json`), add the Mendix runtime URL to the following directives:

* `script-src`
* `script-src-elem`
* `font-src`
* `connect-src`
* `img-src`
* `style-src`

Use the browser console CSP errors to identify any additional directives that still need the Mendix origin for your specific setup.

After updating the CSP, restart the Teamcenter Process Manager for the changes to take effect.

{{% alert color="warning" %}}
If Teamcenter returns `HTTP 401 Unauthorized` with a JWT signature error after restarting the Process Manager, restart the entire Teamcenter server.
{{% /alert %}}

## Configuring Authentication {#authentication}

> During Beta, authentication uses the Teamcenter Connector's Teamcenter SSO flow. The Mendix app login page shows an SSO button. When a user clicks it, they are redirected to Teamcenter Security Services (TcSS) for authentication. After a successful login, TcSS redirects back to the Mendix app, where the user is provisioned or matched to an existing Mendix account and a Teamcenter Connector session is established.

Reviewer 3: This part is incorrect. There is no need to add an SSO button, after setting up the Teamcenter connector, the authentication is done with the popup logic in the AW component, which uses the Tc Connector published REST endpoint, no need to change login.html.

{{% alert color="info" %}}
Because the Mendix app runs inside Active Workspace, the SSO redirect opens in a popup window. The popup can be automated to require zero additional clicks after the user is already signed in to TcSS. The planned GA release targets a fully invisible authentication flow with no popup.
{{% /alert %}}

Follow these steps to configure authentication. Steps 1–3 require Teamcenter administrator access.

1. **Register the Mendix App with Teamcenter Security Services**:

    Register the Mendix app in the Teamcenter Deployment Center so TcSS can authenticate it. For instructions, see [Registering Your App for Teamcenter SSO](/appstore/modules/siemens-plm/configuring-connection-2512/#register-your-app-for-teamcenter-sso).

1. **Configure the Teamcenter Connector Connection**:

    In your Mendix app, configure a Teamcenter Connector connection using **Teamcenter SSO** as the authentication method. For instructions, see [Configuring the Connection to Teamcenter](/appstore/modules/siemens-plm/configuring-connection-2512/).

1. **Configure User Provisioning**:

>     Set up user provisioning so that Mendix accounts are matched to Teamcenter users on login. For instructions, see [User Provisioning for SSO](/appstore/modules/siemens-plm/configuring-connection-2512/#user-provisioning-for-sso).

Reviewer 3: User provisioning should be setup with `EXAMPLE_UserProvisioningAnonymous`.  For the Mendix application itself, anonymous users should be disabled

1. **Add an SSO Login Button to the Login Page**:
    

>     Add a Teamcenter SSO login button to the Mendix app's `login.html` so users can initiate the TcSS authentication flow. For instructions, see [Adding an SSO Login Button to Your Login Page](/appstore/modules/siemens-plm/configuring-connection-2512/#add-sso-login-button). Optionally, use JavaScript to trigger the authentication automatically. Note that browsers may block the popup unless it is triggered directly by a user action.

Reviewer 3: See above, this should be removed

> 

Reviewer 3: Instead, for now the following needs to be configured (there are plans to improve this):
- Add a JavaScript action called JS_CloseWindow with the following:
 ```
  */
export async function JS_CloseWindow() {
	// BEGIN USER CODE
 	window.close();
	// END USER CODE
}
 ```
- Add a Nanoflow that calls this JavaScript action
- Add an empty page called 'AuthSuccess' to the application which contains an 'Component load' event that calls this Nanoflow
- Change the `DL_HandleSSOLoginMicroflow` to show `AuthSuccess` instead of the home page as the last action in the Microflow.

## Passing Context from Teamcenter {#passing-context}

The `MendixEmbedded` AWC component passes Teamcenter object context to the Mendix app as startup parameters. These are configured in the AWC component and forwarded to the Mendix `render()` call as the `parameters` object.

The following example shows how the AWC component passes a selected Teamcenter item UID to the Mendix app:

> ```js

Reviewer 3: This example corresponds more to the actual component:

(including PascalCase for parameter key)

```
 const app = await import(/* webpackIgnore: true */ `${mendixUrl}'dist/embedded-index.js'`);
 cleanup = await app.render(container, {
                remoteUrl: mendixUrl,
                minHeight: '100vh',
                parameters: { 
                      SelectedItem: selectedItem
               }
});

```

const MENDIX_URL = "https://your-mendix-runtime.example.com/";

export async function mountMendixInTeamcenter(container, tcContext) {
    const embeddedModule = await import(`${MENDIX_URL}dist/embedded-index.js`);
    return embeddedModule.render(container, {
        remoteUrl: MENDIX_URL,
        minHeight: "620px",
        parameters: {
            itemUID: tcContext.selected.uid
        }
    });
}
```

> The `parameters` object is available to the Mendix app at startup. Use a JavaScript action on the home page to read parameters and pass them to your application logic.

Reviewer 3: This would be the actual code snippet needed to pass the uid as a parameter (code that needs to be be added is prefixed with `>>`):
```javascript
export const mendixRenderFunction = (props) => {
    const [error, setError] = useState(null);
    >> const selectedItem = props.ctx?.selected?.uid ?? '';

    const mendixUrl = getMendixUrl(props);
    if (mendixUrl === undefined) {
        setError('There is no Mendix URL configured. Contact support to resolve this issue.');
    }

    const retryError = () => {
        setError(null);
    };

    const load = useCallback(async (container) => {
        mendixCleanupFunction();

        if (!container) {
            return;
        }

        try {
            if (REQUIRE_SESSION) {
                await ensureHasValidSession(mendixUrl);
            }

            const app = await import(/* webpackIgnore: true */ `${mendixUrl}dist/embedded-index.js`);
            const cleanup = await app.render(container, { remoteUrl: mendixUrl, minHeight: '100vh',
            >> parameters: { SelectedItem: selectedItem }
            });

            const onReload = () => load(container);
            container.addEventListener(RELOAD_EVENT, onReload, { once: true });

            currentMendixCleanup = () => {
                container.removeEventListener(RELOAD_EVENT, onReload);
                cleanup?.();
            };
        } catch (error) {
            setError(error);
        }
    }, [mendixUrl, 
        >> selectedItem
    ]);

    if (error) {
        if (error.code === 'POPUP_BLOCKED') {
            return <PopupBlockedView subPanelContext={{ retry: retryError }} />;
        }

        return <GeneralErrorViewModel subPanelContext={{ errorMessage: error.message ?? 'An unexpected error occurred.', retry: retryError }} />;
    }

    return <div ref={load} style={{ width: '100%', height: '100vh' }} />;
};

```

The Mendix-inside-Teamcenter Active Workspace component (`MendixEmbedded`) is a custom Active Workspace web component that loads the Mendix embedded client bundle and mounts the Mendix app inside the Active Workspace page.

### Adding the Component to Active Workspace

1. Obtain the `MendixEmbedded` component from [GitHub](https://github.com/mendixlabs/mendix-inside-teamcenter).
2. Install the component into your Active Workspace stage repository under `src/repo`.
3. Configure the component with the URL of your Mendix runtime.
4. Optionally, set up context passing. For more information, see [Passing Context from Teamcenter](#passing-context).
5. Rebuild Active Workspace using `awbuild.cmd`.

To verify the component was picked up correctly, check that its view model entry exists in the `src/repo/out/pathMap.json` registry file in the build output.

### Registering the Component on a Page

To display the Mendix app on an Active Workspace page, add its card definition to the relevant `layoutsViewModel.json` file in your Active Workspace stage repository. Set `declarativeKeyContext` to the URL of your Mendix runtime:

```json
"Mendix": {

>     "title": "Mendix",

Reviewer 3: Another note the 'Title' is the label that is shown in the card. In the screenshot below the tile is 'Tasks' for the left card and 'Changes' for the right one. We should mention that this title can be customized as wanted.

<img width="843" height="506" alt="Screenshot 2026-07-06 at 10 18 12" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/2a3235e5-0ced-4292-9f18-dcb57a23e6cb" />

Reviewer 2: Noted.

4. **Add the following required customizations**:
    
    1. Create a JavaScript action called JS_CloseWindow containing the following code:

        ```javascript
        export async function JS_CloseWindow() {  
            // BEGIN USER CODE  
            window.close();  
            // END USER CODE  
        }
        ```

    2. Add a nanoflow that calls this JavaScript action.
    3. Add an empty page called `AuthSuccess` to the application which contains an `Component load` event that calls this nanoflow.
    4. Change the `DL_HandleSSOLoginMicroflow` to show the `AuthSuccess` page instead of the home page as the last action in the microflow.

        For instructions, see the [Adding an SSO Login Button to Your Login Page](/appstore/modules/siemens-plm/configuring-connection-2512/#add-sso-login-button) section of *Configuring the Connection to Teamcenter with Teamcenter Connector 2512.0.0 and Above*.

>     5. Optionally, use JavaScript to trigger the authentication automatically. 

Reviewer 3: I missed this part earlier, but when using the default `mx-in-tc` kit, authentication is always trigged automatically.

Reviewer 2: @brambrink - should I just add that this is not necessary if using the defaults? Or can we just remove this step?

Reviewer 3: We can just remove this step

Reviewer 2: Removed in 2e448b8741afd067425dcd9fa2c7864027901203

---
title: "Mendix Inside Teamcenter"
url: /refguide/mendix-client/mendix-inside-teamcenter/
description: "Describes how to embed a Mendix web app as a native component inside Siemens Teamcenter Active Workspace using the embedded client."
weight: 40
beta: true
---

## Introduction

{{% alert color="info" %}}
Mendix inside Teamcenter is available in Mendix version 11.12.0 and above and is currently in public Beta. See the [prerequisites](#prerequisites) for more version requirements.
{{% /alert %}}

Mendix inside Teamcenter lets you embed a Mendix web app as a native component inside Siemens Teamcenter Active Workspace. The Mendix app runs directly in the Active Workspace page as a micro-frontend using the [Embedded Client](/refguide/mendix-client/embedding-the-client/) feature.

This integration requires the [Teamcenter Connector](/appstore/modules/siemens-plm/teamcenter-connector/) to connect the Mendix app to Teamcenter data and to handle authentication.

## Prerequisites {#prerequisites}

The following versions are required:

| | Mendix | Teamcenter | Teamcenter Connector |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |

> | **Beta** | 11.12 | 2512 | 2606.0.0 or above |

Reviewer 2: I still don't see this connector version in the Marketplace.

Author: This is planned for release in a few weeks. We could either explain that here (and remove the comment when it is released) or wait with the release of this PR until it is available.

| Header | Value |
| --- | --- |
| `Access-Control-Allow-Credentials` | `true` |
| `Access-Control-Allow-Headers` | `Content-Type, x-csrf-token` |
| `Access-Control-Allow-Methods` | `POST, GET, OPTIONS` |
| `Access-Control-Allow-Origin` | `https://your-teamcenter.example.com` |

{{% alert color="info" %}}
For the Mendix public cloud do not use the HTTP Header configuration in the cloud portal. Instead set the custom runtime configuration setting `Headers` to the following:
```json
{
  "Access-Control-Allow-Credentials": "true",
  "Access-Control-Allow-Headers": "Content-Type, x-csrf-token",
  "Access-Control-Allow-Methods": "POST, GET, OPTIONS",
  "Access-Control-Allow-Origin": "https://your-teamcenter.example.com"
}
```
See [custom settings](https://docs.mendix.com/refguide/custom-settings/#Headers) for details.
{{% /alert %}}

{{% alert color="info" %}}
Both the Mendix runtime and the Active Workspace server must be served over HTTPS. When `SameSiteCookies` is set to `None`, the `Secure` attribute is automatically added to cookies, which requires HTTPS on both origins.
{{% /alert %}}

#### CORS for TcSSO Published REST Service

> Configure the [CORS settings](/refguide/cors-settings/) for the TcSSO Published REST Service that is included in the Teamcenter Connector and add your teamcenter host `https://your-teamcenter.example.com` to the Allowed Origins.

Reviewer 2: Imported the Teamcenter Connector but couldn't find where to change this setting. I couldn't see a Published REST Service as part of TcConnector 2512.1.1. Is it in 2606, or am I looking in the wrong place?

Author: @wanchoorohan Is the TcSSO published rest service added in 2606?

Author: The PRS is under Internal\Resources\ServiceHandlers\TCSSO

Restart the Mendix app after changing these settings. For background on how CORS works in the Mendix runtime, see [Configuring CORS in the Mendix Runtime](https://docs.mendix.com/refguide/configure-cors/).

## Installing the Mendix Component in Active Workspace

The Mendix-inside-Teamcenter Active Workspace component (`MendixEmbedded`) is a custom Active Workspace web component that loads the Mendix embedded client bundle and mounts the Mendix app inside the Active Workspace page.

### Adding the Component to Active Workspace

> 1. Obtain the `MendixEmbedded` component from [GitHub](TBD).

Reviewer 2: Need a link here

2. Install the component into your Active Workspace stage repository under `src/repo`.
3. Configure the component with the URL of your Mendix runtime.
4. Optionally, set up context passing. For more information, see [Passing Context from Teamcenter](#passing-context).
5. Rebuild Active Workspace using `awbuild.cmd`.

To verify the component was picked up correctly, check that its view model entry exists in the `src/repo/out/pathMap.json` registry file in the build output.

### Registering the Component on a Page

To display the Mendix app on an Active Workspace page, add a card definition for it to the relevant `layoutsViewModel.json` file in your Active Workspace stage repository. Set `declarativeKeyContext` to the URL of your Mendix runtime:

```json

> "Mendix": {

Reviewer 2: I assume this is just an example name? I think we should make it clearer that this is an example.

Author: @brambrink Can you explain which part developers can customize and which part they cannot? I assume the key name and Title can be changed.

Reviewer 3: Developer can choose any name they want, as long as it is not in use already. This key is used for referencing this 'card' in the layout later. Technically, it is an example, but there is not really a good reason to change 'Mendix' to something else in my opinion.

Reviewer 2: Clarified.

    "title": "Mendix",

>     "view": "MendixEmbedded",

Reviewer 2: I assume this is fixed and is the same as the "Mendix-inside-Teamcenter Active Workspace component" described above? Perhaps we should make a note there that this is a "view" so the reader ties the two things together?

Reviewer 3: Yes, exactly, the View here is the Mendix-inside-Teamcenter Active Workspace component, would be good to clarify

Reviewer 2: Clarified.

    "anchor": "",
    "props": {
        "subPanelContext": {
            "declarativeKeyContext": "https://your-mendix-runtime.example.com"
        }
    }
}
```

> Add `"Mendix"` to the relevant layout handler grid and rebuild Active Workspace. If the Mendix card does not appear after rebuilding, clear the browser cache to ensure the new chunk is loaded.

Reviewer 2: Is this "Mendix" as in the json object, or "Mendix" as in the "title" of the json object?

Author: @brambrink Related comment

Reviewer 3: 'Mendix' as in the JSON object

Reviewer 2: Clarified.

In your Teamcenter gateway configuration (`gateway/config.json`), add the Mendix runtime URL to the following directives:

* `script-src`
* `script-src-elem`
* `font-src`
* `connect-src`
* `img-src`
* `style-src`

Use the browser console CSP errors to identify any additional directives that still need the Mendix origin for your specific setup.

After updating the CSP, restart the Teamcenter Process Manager for the changes to take effect.

{{% alert color="warning" %}}
If Teamcenter returns `HTTP 401 Unauthorized` with a JWT signature error after restarting the Process Manager, restart the entire Teamcenter server.
{{% /alert %}}

## Configuring Authentication {#authentication}

During Beta, authentication uses the Teamcenter Connector's Teamcenter SSO flow. Upon accessing the Mendix application, a popup is opened automatically for authentication. After successful login (which in most cases will happen automatically), the popup is closed and the Mendix application and Teamcenter Connector are authenticated.

{{% alert color="info" %}}
For the GA release we plan to offer an alternative authentication flow that is fully invisible and does not require a popup.
{{% /alert %}}

> Follow these steps to configure authentication. Steps 1–3 require Teamcenter administrator access.

Reviewer 2: You say that administrator access is required on each step. I don't think we need it here as well.

1. **Register the Mendix App with Teamcenter Security Services**:

    Register the Mendix app in the Teamcenter Deployment Center so TcSS can authenticate it. For instructions, see [Registering Your App for Teamcenter SSO](/appstore/modules/siemens-plm/configuring-connection-2512/#register-your-app-for-teamcenter-sso).
    

>     This step requires administrator access to Teamcenter.

Reviewer 2: Perhaps make this more obvious?

And the other ones below as well?

```suggestion
    {{% alert color="info" %}}This step requires administrator access to Teamcenter.{{% /alert %}}
```

        }

        return <GeneralErrorViewModel subPanelContext={{ errorMessage: error.message ?? 'An unexpected error occurred.', retry: retryError }} />;
    }

    return <div ref={load} style={{ width: '100%', height: '100vh' }} />;
};
```

The `parameters` object is available to the Mendix app at startup. Use a JavaScript action on the home page to read parameters and pass them to your application logic.

For the full `render()` API, see [Embedding the Client](/refguide/mendix-client/embedding-the-client/).

### Best Practices for Context Parameters

* **Use persistable object IDs only.** Pass Item UIDs or ItemRevision UIDs. These are stable and unique across sessions.
* **Avoid non-persistable IDs.** BOM line IDs are runtime calculation results that lose synchronization when Teamcenter configuration rules change. Do not use them as parameters.
* **Prefer Item IDs over ItemRevision IDs** where possible. Item IDs are context-independent and do not depend on the revision rule in effect.
* **Discover available parameters** by referring to the Active Workspace documentation for a list of available context parameters.

## Known Limitations (Beta)

> * **Cross-site cookies:** The browser must allow cross-site cookies for the Mendix domain. This is required because the Mendix app runs on a different origin than Active Workspace. Configure this per-domain via organization policy (for example, Intune).

Reviewer 2: Is this really a limitation? It is not something that we can even change so I would say it is a prerequisite.

Author: You are right. I removed it as it was already listed in the prerequisites

* **Authentication popup:** During Beta, the Teamcenter Connector SSO flow opens a popup window. This can be automated to require zero additional clicks after the user is already authenticated with TcSS.

> * **Optional parameters fallback:** If an optional startup parameter is omitted, the embedded client shows the fallback page rather than using the parameter's default value. This is a known limitation of the embedded client. See [Embedding the Client](/refguide/mendix-client/embedding-the-client/).

Reviewer 2: This is currently noted as a known **issue**. I think we should be consistent in the language here. If it is an issue there is an implication that we will fix it in the future.

```suggestion
* **Optional parameters fallback:** If an optional startup parameter is omitted, the embedded client shows the fallback page rather than using the parameter's default value. This is a known issue with the embedded client. See [Embedding the Client](/refguide/mendix-client/embedding-the-client/).
```

---
title: "Mendix Inside Teamcenter"
url: /refguide/mendix-client/mendix-inside-teamcenter/
description: "Describes how to embed a Mendix web app as a native component inside Siemens Teamcenter Active Workspace using the embedded client."
weight: 40
beta: true
---

## Introduction

{{% alert color="info" %}}
Mendix inside Teamcenter is available in Mendix version 11.12.0 and above and is currently in public Beta. See the [prerequisites](#prerequisites) for more version requirements.
{{% /alert %}}

Mendix inside Teamcenter lets you embed a Mendix web app as a native component inside Siemens Teamcenter Active Workspace. The Mendix app runs directly in the Active Workspace page as a micro-frontend using the [Embedded Client](/refguide/mendix-client/embedding-the-client/) feature.

This integration requires the [Teamcenter Connector](/appstore/modules/siemens-plm/teamcenter-connector/) to connect the Mendix app to Teamcenter data and to handle authentication.

## Prerequisites {#prerequisites}

The following versions are required:

| | Mendix | Teamcenter | Teamcenter Connector |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |

> | **Beta** | 11.12 or above | 2512 | 2606.0.0 or above |

Reviewer 4: | **Beta** | 11.12 or above | 2512 | 2606.0.0 or above |
@jdiehl, has version 2606.0.0 been released?

Author: It will be released in a few weeks - see my comment above

Reviewer 4: Thank you! Hadn't even realized the question was already asked multiple times.

| **GA (planned)** | 11.18 | 2612 | TBD |

In addition, the following requirements must be met:

* The Teamcenter Active Workspace instance is customizable and can be rebuilt and redeployed.
* The Teamcenter Content Security Policy (CSP) is configurable.
* The Mendix app is registered with the identity provider used by Teamcenter Security Services (TcSS).
* The browser allows cross-site cookies for the Mendix domain. This can be configured per-domain via organization policy (for example, using Intune).
* There is bidirectional network connectivity between the user's browser and both the Mendix runtime and the Teamcenter server.

> For Teamcenter Connector prerequisites, see [Teamcenter Connector](/appstore/modules/siemens-plm/teamcenter-connector/).

Reviewer 4: Direct path to the prereqs: `/appstore/modules/siemens-plm/teamcenter-connector/#prerequisites`

        >> selectedItem
    ]);

    if (error) {
        if (error.code === 'POPUP_BLOCKED') {
            return <PopupBlockedView subPanelContext={{ retry: retryError }} />;
        }

        return <GeneralErrorViewModel subPanelContext={{ errorMessage: error.message ?? 'An unexpected error occurred.', retry: retryError }} />;
    }

    return <div ref={load} style={{ width: '100%', height: '100vh' }} />;
};
```

The `parameters` object is available to the Mendix app at startup. Use a JavaScript action on the home page to read parameters and pass them to your application logic.

For the full `render()` API, see [Embedding the Client](/refguide/mendix-client/embedding-the-client/).

### Best Practices for Context Parameters

* **Use persistable object IDs only.** Pass `Item` UIDs or `ItemRevision` UIDs. These are stable and unique across sessions.
* **Avoid non-persistable IDs.** BOM line IDs are runtime calculation results that lose synchronization when Teamcenter configuration rules change. Do not use them as parameters.
* **Prefer `Item` IDs over `ItemRevision` IDs** where possible. `Item` IDs are context-independent and do not depend on the revision rule in effect.

> * **Discover available parameters** by referring to the Active Workspace documentation for a list of available context parameters.

Reviewer 4: Is there a link we can add to "Active Workspace documentation"?

Author: Afaik Active Workspace documentation is not publicly accessible

## Known Limitations (Beta)

* **Cross-site cookies:** The browser must allow cross-site cookies for the Mendix domain. This is required because the Mendix app runs on a different origin than Active Workspace. Configure this per-domain via organization policy (for example, Intune).

> * **Authentication popup:** During Beta, the Teamcenter Connector SSO flow opens a popup window. This can be automated to require zero additional clicks after the user is already authenticated with TcSS.

Reviewer 4: Small typo. Should be "pop-up".
